450BC: Plato reported a dialogue in which Socrates asks Euthyphro for an algorithm to distinguish pieth from non-peity

1847: George Boole introduced his formal language for making logical inference, Boole's approach was incomplete, but good enough that others filled in the gaps.

1879: Gottlob Frege produced a logic that, except for some notational changes, forms the first-order logic that is used today as the most basic knowledge representation system.

1900: David Hilbert presented a list of 23 problems that he correctly predicted would occupy mathematicians for the bulk of century. The final problem asks if there is an algorithm for deciding the truth of any logical preposition involving the natural numbers - the famous Entscheidungs problem, or decision problem. Essentially, Hilbert was asking if there were fundamental limits to the power of effective proof procedures.

1930: Kurt Godel showed that there exist an effective procedure to prove any true statement in the first-order logic of Frege-Russell; but first order logic could not capture the principle of mathematical induction needed to characterize the natural numbers.

1931: Kurt Godel showed that real limits do exist. His incompleteness theorem showed that in any language expressive to describe the properties of the natural numbers, there are true statements that are undecidable: their truth cannot be established by any algorithm.

1940: The first operational modern computer was the Heath Robinson, built by Alan Turing's team for the single purpose of deciphering German messages.

1941: The first operational programmable computer was the Z-3, the invention of Konard Zuse in Germany. Zuse invented floating point no for Z-3.

1942: In the United States, the first electronic computer, the ABC, was assembled by John Atanasoff and his graduate student Clifford Berry between 1940 and 1942 at Iowa State University.

1945: Zuse developed Plankalkul, the first high level programming language.

1952: Nathaniel Rochester and his group build IBM 701, this was the first computer to yield income for its manufacturer.

1956: the name artificial intelligence was coined by John McCarthy at Dartmouth College

1956: Newell and Simon demonstrated their reasoning program called Logic Theorist (LT)

1956: In February, Arthur Samuel demonstrated the program for playing checkers which could learn on its own.

1958: John McCarthy defined the high level language Lisp, which was to become the dominant AI programming language.

1958: John McCarthy published a paper entitled Programs with Common Sense, in which he described a hypothetical program called 'Advice Taker', which can be seen as first complete AI system.

1959: Herbert Gelernter (1959) constructed the Geometry Theorem Prover.

1961: Newell and Simon developed GPS (General Problem Solver)

1963: James Slagle's SAINT program was able to solve closed-form integration problems typical of first year college calculus courses.

1968: Tom Evan's ANALOGY program solved geometric analogy problems that appear in IQ test

1968: Bertram Raphael's SIR (Semantic Information Retrieval) was able to accept input statements in a very restricted subset of English and answer question thereon.